>> Melkey: So we went SQL layer,
database layer,
we know where we're going API layer.
Let's go into the API,
we're gonna make a new file called
token_handler.go, package API like so.
Quickly create our handlers and
these shrugs,
we can do type TokenHandler struct.
This one can be a little different,
cuz not only we're gonna have
the tokenStore of store.TokenStore,
we're also gonna have a userStore.
UserStore, that's also
gonna have our logger,
which *logger., oops, not that.
Like that, okay?
Func NewTokenHandler, let's go ahead and
create this, can take a tokenStore
type store.TokenStore,
userStore type store.UserStore,
logger like so.
This is going to return
a pointer to TokenHandler.
Go ahead and return TokenHandler and
fill out those fields to tokenStore,
tokenStore, userStore, userStore,
and then logger is logger.
Oops.
>> Melkey: Cool.
>> Melkey: Okay,
we'll basically create one function here,
which going to be creating a token for
authentication.
>> Melkey: But since this is gonna be
create method, and we've now handled,
I think, two different create methods,
one for user,
one for workouts and even updating.
We have to always remember that
we have the ability to dump
the data from our client into
a placeholder structure.
And that should be ringing the bells of a
struck, we can use another struck, right?
So we can do type, we can call this
createTokenRequest, this gonna
be a struct that we're gonna decode the
information we get from our client, okay?
So here we can put Username
is gonna be a string,
>> Melkey: Like this, and
then the password is gonna be a string
'json:"password"', like that, right?
Now that we have that, let's go ahead and
create our method on the TokenHandler,
which is gonna be HandleCreateToken,
like so.
It's gonna be http.ResponseWriter, and
our pointer to http.Request,
let's get ourselves more room here.
So first, let's go ahead and
parse the request.
So we're gonna declare
this variable request,
which can be of type createTokenRequest,
the struct we just created above.
Let's go ahead and decode everything
in there, so json.NewDecoder(r.Body),
I'm gonna decode this into
the address of request like so.
If error does not equal to nil,
let's check those
errors with h.logger.Printf,
I can just say ERROR.
Okay, and we can say,
createTokenRequest, right,
module o v, let's put err.
Then we can use our utils.WriteJSON
package (w, http.StatusBadRequest,
utils.envelope), let's
put "error" in here.
And over here,
we can say invalid request payload,
okay, and
then let's make sure we return out of it.
>> Melkey: So this is pretty standard
stuff we've done a bunch of times already.
So first we're gonna retrieve
if the user exists by username.
Then they usually we know exist.
If they do, we're gonna check
invalidate the passwords,
if they match we will then issue a token,
okay?
So first, let's get the user, we can do
this cuz we've already at the user store.
We can already do this since we've
created the function to do that,
which was get user by username.
So we can do user, err,
is gonna be h.userStore,
that's our TokenHandler has
the userstore within it.
We can do GetUserByUsername(re.Username),
okay?
If err != nil || user is nil,
okay, h.ogger.Printf,
we can say ("ERROR: GetuserByUsername:
"%v") utils.writeJSON(w,
http, and
we can say StatusInternalServerError).
>> Melkey: Okay,
let's go ahead and return.
>> Melkey: So at this point on that line,
we should have two pieces of information.
We have the request information
from our decoding, and
then we also have a user struck
from getuser by username.
Next thing we wanna do is validate those
passwords so we can do passwordsDoMatch,
or something like that, and
that's obvious, error is going to be,
>> Melkey: User.PasswordHush, all right,
.matches, so this is the second
function we created a little bit ago,
and we can do (req.Password), okay?
If err != nil,
we definitely wanna handle this,
we can h.logger.Printf("ERROR:
PasswordMatch,
you can just do PasswordHush_Mathes.
>> Melkey: Nope, utils.WriteJSON, okay,
so w, http StatusInternalError,
>> Melkey: InternalServerError,
utils.Envelope("error":).
And then we can just put
"internal server error" like so,
let's make sure we return.
>> Melkey: Okay, and then here,
if the passwords don't match,
if the passwords do not match, right,
we can use the exclamation point
operator to evaluate boolean expression.
So this would be, if it's not true,
or if it's false,
we can do utils.WriteJSON(w),
we can do http.
It's not gonna be internal server errors,
can be StatusUnauthorized,
we can do utils.Envelope("error":) and
then the error message this time,
we could just say, "invalid credentials".
>> Melkey: Keep it broad, can make sure
we add the return statement there.
And now at this point,
we can say that we've validated a user
with the right username that they exist.
Now we've matched the password we sent
with the password that we've hashed using
bcrypt.
Okay, so let's actually go ahead and
issue this token file,
let's do token,
err is going to be h.tokenStore.
Let's create this new token,
I'm gonna pass in user.ID.
We're gonna give it a 24 hour lifespan,
so 24*time.Hour, okay?
And for the scope,
we'll do tokens.scopeAuth like so,
I'm gonna go ahead and handle,
so here, if err != nil,
>> Melkey: Supposed to be error,
I said password matches,
we can just say couldn't create a token.
So Creating Token.
So this is still gonna be
an internal server error,
we can keep it like so,
we can return out and in here.
We can do utils.WriteJSON(w, ) we can do
http.StatusCreated, okay, utils.Envelope.
We can say something like,
you see something like "auth_token", and
then the associate token like this.
Whatever you wanna call it,
token, auth_token,
secret_token, whatever,
it's all up to you.
But just to be mindful that your client
will have to decode that JSON as
auth_token.
Hopefully this is making sense.
Hopefully, at this point the pattern
is very obvious, like handler,
database, SQL, app,
route.go, it's very defined.
And I think it scales really nicely,
right, it's very containerized.
TokenHandler, you know exactly
what's gonna happen here, and
then you can match it with tokenStore and
be like, okay, I see what's going on here.
And then if tokenHandler has a userStore,
you know exactly where that is, see,
look, okay,
I can see what's happening here.
But with that being said,
let's go back to our app.go,
since we do need to hook
up the tokenhandler here.
So, TokenHandler and
api.TokenHandler, like so.
And actually this is a TokenStore,
we'll just do store.NewPostgresTokenStore,
this is gonna take our DB, so pgDB.
Can get mad at us, and
here we do TokenHandler,
it's gonna be api.NewTokenHandler,
like so.
It's gonna take the TokenStore,
the userStore and logger.
And then put TokenHandler as TokenHandler
in the actual return application struct.
All right, let's head on over
to the last place we can modify,
which is this location here,
the routes location.
So here, this is for
users when they want to authenticate.
So you can use them like
("/token/authentication"),
like that, and we can do
app.TokenHandler.HandleCreateToken,
again remember,
we're passing it as first class citizens.